hello friends are milta from hobby chef
and I'm not giving you recipe which is
dal makhni the literal meaning of the
term l don whistles pulses or lentil and
mclean means very buttery so it's kind
of a buttery mental preparation come
let's have a look at the ingredients
first I have taken half cup of hooded
armatures this black lentils and a
handful of red kidney beans I soaked
them overnight and drain the water and
this is what it comes as so now we will
check out the other ingredients you need
salt to taste coriander powder 2 tbsp
red chilli powder half teaspoon and if
you prefer it more you can add more
cumin seeds 1 4 TSP half cup of milk
clarified butter or ghee 2 tbsp butter 2
tbsp this is nutmeg I've taken the whole
nutmeg here but I'll grade the nutmeg
and put a pinch of the grated nutmeg in
the dish this is what I have done I have
taken three medium sized tomatoes and
three to four cloves of garlic and
maiden made it into a puree now have a
look at this this is a masala Turkey
which I have bought from jammu and it's
a very good product I use this for
making my dal makhani rajma and many
other gravies but if you don't have this
you can add half teaspoon of garam
masala ok now let's start cooking first
of all he
table spoon of clarified butter that is
ghee in a pan let it heat up then we add
our cumin seeds ok now I'm omitting one
step here because I have heard this
lovely masala Turkey otherwise Oh what
you can do is for the same flavor take
two whole red chillies dried and three
cloves of garlic soak them in water for
10 to 15 minutes then grind it into a
fine paste after putting the 01 sit
crackles you can put that paste and cook
nicely till the oil separates in our
cumin seeds are crafty late because of
knots ardennes Artemis chili paste I'll
and directly my far into it
because i have taken half cup of dark
i'll add five times that is two and a
half cups of water after adding two and
a half cups of water I'll close the lid
of pressure cooker put your gas on high
flame and let one whistle come after the
first whistle lower the flame owns them
and keep it up on the flame for 15 to 20
minutes okay now 15 minutes has been
over since fear cooking ah huzzah I
switched off the gap okay though I've
added the tomato cutie to that may take
the garlic puri to dal and i started my
gas again we will keep it on medium
flame and keep stirring in between and
will and our rest of the ingredients
first of all we'd add coriander powder
okay I've added to one and a half to 2
tbsp of coriander powder and i'm adding
1 tsp of red chilli powder
if you like more heat you can add more
mix it properly and cook it for 5
minutes and keep stirring in between
okay it has been five minutes since my
doll is simmering away now I'll add this
masala I have taken half teaspoon of
this masala paste and I will put it into
water mix properly
it will give a nice red color to the
doll and a nice flavor this is always
properly and add it to the darn now I'll
add my butter now I forgot to mention in
the ingredients will our darkest we make
you also it's nothing but drive friend
eat leaves clicking on one tablespoon of
pursue anything in your heart crushed
between your palms and added
mix nicely okay now there are two ways
to cook this doll one is we can cook it
over a slow flame for 15 20 minute
otherwise we put the lid back and cook
till two whistles so I will prefer the
second method because it was makin
faster ok now after to the sills have
taken the lid off now you can see the
texture of the doll it's a little thin
but you don't worry about that it will
get the texture gradually now I'll greed
a pinch of nutmeg into it don't add much
because it has a very strong flavor I'm
adding half cup of milk normally they
are cream in this but I don't prefer
adding green because it makes the dish
very rich so if you prefer you can use
our 2 tablespoon of cream otherwise i am
adding half cup of melt into it add the
milk once it's a little cold so that the
milk doesn't harden up mix it properly
take it back to the gas and simmer it
for 2 to 3 minutes again after that let
it cool on for 45 minutes and you will
have the right texture of the dot ok now
you can see the doll has become very
rich and creamy now and it's ready to be
solved ok now it's ready to be eaten I
sounded with fresh cream aren't kasoori
methi you can have it with chapati and
it goes very well with plain rice ok
friends thanks for watching the video if
you liked it please do subscribe thank
you